So,
what we're going to talk about today and
I'm going to go a little slow and wait
for
some people to tune in.
But
we're going to launch a new series
called the falsehoods of fitness.
So, this new series is going to
encompass all the comments that I see
about my research or just generally in
the company with X3 and we get some
crazy comments like what about, you
know, muscle confusion or something like
that or the workout's the same all the
time. Don't you want to mix it up?
There's a lot of
really, really unfortunately false
things that are principles of fitness
seemingly that just won't go away. And
so, we're going to go subject by subject
in no particular order. And we're going
to determine I'm going to I'm going to
review what's been seen in the academic
research as far as some of these
principles and I've touched on some of
them so many times it'd be better just
have a video to refer to where I'm
quoting the actual clinical data, you
know, like for example, there's 40 years
of research showing that cardio will
help you protect your body fat as in
keep as much as possible. So, you know,
not not really the way to go. Being lean
is what you want to do. If you want to
be a great runner, different story. So,
we'll take like two questions while we
let some people tune in.
Manny, is there any any questions
anybody's asked so far? Okay.
So,
and and just just go ahead and type any
question while we're live and of course
like after we finish and let's talk
about some of the things that we're
going to hit in
the series, leave suggestions of, you
know, what about X? What about isolating
a body part? Isolating a piece of a
muscle. That's another
great one. So,
we can we can make sure and I don't know
if this series is going to go like 10
different videos. It might go 20, 30,
50. I don't know. There's a lot of goofy
stuff out there that just keeps coming
back. So,
why don't I go ahead? Okay, we got a
question. Question now.
How do you know when to move up in
bands? Is there a certain number of reps
you should try to hit? Okay, question.
How do you know when to move up in
bands? Is there a certain number to hit?
Yes. Now, because we're using variable
resistance, this is an X3 specific
question. I also want to know that this
series is not just going to be about X3.
It's going to be like falsehoods of
fitness as in applied to all types of
fitness. So, this will be shareable to
anybody you know who cares about
exercise.
But this question is specifically for
X3.
When you move up in bands, you want to
stay in the rep range of 15 to 40
repetitions. Now, someone say that seems
high. Except remember in the in the
stronger range of motion when you're out
here, when you're going to fatigue out
here and then you diminish your range of
motion and then you go to fatigue here
and then you go to fatigue here, it's a
much more intense stimulus and you're
using more weight than you may have ever
used with more repetitions than you
normally ever use. Once you get past
like 40 repetitions, that's the time to
move to the next band. So, I hear some
people go, well, I really need a band in
between the two bands.
I don't think you do. Because
a lot of people who are following that
particular direction are just making
huge gains
and then, you know, getting all the way
through one band and then and then going
to the next one.
So,
okay, I am going to continue. We have
another question.
Another question, yes.
For the advanced program, does it
typically take around 20 minutes to do
the workout?
For the So, repeat the question just so
you guys can hear it. For the advanced
programming, does it take 20 minutes to
do the workout?
Yes. No.
It should still take around 10 minutes.
Ultimately, you're doing around four
sets
per workout.
Remember just stick to the one. Some
people really like doing two sets per
workout
for exercise. I still do one. I did
experiment with with two for a little
bit, but I went back to one. You just go
to a deeper level of exhaustion. Also,
when you know you've got to get the job
done with one set,
you're going to behave a little
differently. You're going to go to
absolute fatigue in all ranges of motion
simultaneously, something you cannot do
with a weight.
Therefore,
the love the depth of exhaustion. You're
you're trying to show the central
nervous system a deficit of tissue.
Like, we don't have enough muscle here.
We need more. So, the the more intense
the stimulus in the shorter period of
time, not the longer period, the shorter
period of time, shows the central
nervous system clearly more power is
needed here.
And that is that is the clearer signal.
So, advanced programming involves some
holds to really make sure you're going
to fatigue
at whatever peak you're at. So, like in
a bicep curl here, I'm holding and then
I can't hold there anymore and then
you'll have a shorter rep and I'm
holding there and do a few of those and
then, you know, the last rep is very
very low range repetition in the weaker
range of motion and then going to
fatigue there. So, making sure you're
really just asking yourself, am I really
going to fatigue here? And those holds
will tell you, yeah, you are. So, very
very clear signals.
So,
we'll save the rest of the questions
that are piling up to the end and I'm
just going to go on like some of the
subjects that we're going to talk about
for the for the falsehoods of fitness
series. So,
uh
What what we've seen, I'm just going to
recap for the people who tuned in later.
We're going to we're going over some of
the things that we've seen in the
questions where some someone will look
at
variable resistance and
what we're talking about the principles
that apply to X3 and say, well, what
about progressive resistance?
You know, like for example, that is a
result. That is not a strategy. So,
we're going to look at things. I got I
just have a brief list here
of some of the questions that we get
which are just like nobody should be
asking these questions.
If it fits your macros type nutrition.
Portion
control or caloric restriction depending
on if you read women's magazines or
men's magazines.
Women's magazines typically call portion
control.
Caloric restriction if you read
typically like a more more athletic body
building style magazine.
Portions of your muscle. Can you train
your upper pecs?
Progressive resistance. That's that's a
that's a favorite of especially like
CrossFit people.
Um
We have cardio. Like what like is cardio
is fasted cardio better than not fasted
cardio? What do I want to do to lose the
the most amount of body fat? Direct work
for abdominals. Dr. Jaquish, why don't
you do any direct work for abdominals?
So, muscle confusion theory, another
another favorite that I get from
seemingly some smart people, yet they
ask that question.
Bands. Can bands make you big? I heard
bands can't make you big. So, those are
just some of the examples
of what we're going to go over and I
want these to be like short, maybe five
minute videos where I'll I'll go over
like the best study in the category
because you don't want to hear me rattle
on about 10 different studies. I'm just
going to go over like the best study in
each one of those areas and really nail
like
what it is that that's key. What's the
key takeaway to all of those things and
are they true or are they not true? And
I can tell you they're on the list of
falsehoods, not true. So,
and I will give you
that research. So, welcome to the
series. They're all going to go on
YouTube in order and they'll all be on
the x3bar.com
website
and you'll they'll be very searchable
and so everybody can find can find
those. Like I said, five, 10 minute
videos on one subject. So,
easy to find. I think everybody will
enjoy.